Tarek Abdelzaher received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Michigan in 1999. He is currently a Professor and Willett Faculty Scholar at the Department of Computer Science, the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. He has authored/coauthored more than 300 refereed publications in real-time computing, CPS/IoT, distributed systems, intelligent networked sensing, machine learning, and control. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Real-Time Systems for 20 years, and as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE Embedded Systems Letters, the ACM Transaction on Sensor Networks, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, ACM Transactions on Internet of Things, and the Ad Hoc Networks Journal. He chaired (as Program or General Chair) several conferences in his area including RTAS, RTSS, IPSN, Sensys, DCoSS, ICDCS, Infocom, and ICAC. Abdelzaher's research interests lie broadly in understanding and influencing performance and temporal properties of networked embedded, social, and software systems in the face of increasing complexity, distribution, and degree of interaction with an external physical environment. Tarek Abdelzaher is a recipient of the IEEE Outstanding Technical Achievement and Leadership Award in Real-time Systems (2012), the Xerox Award for Faculty Research (2011), as well as several best paper awards. He is a senior member of IEEE and a fellow of ACM.
Tarek Abdelzaher received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Michigan in 1999. He is currently a Professor and Willett Faculty Scholar at the Department of Computer Science, the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. He has authored/coauthored more than 300 refereed publications in real-time computing, CPS/IoT, distributed systems, intelligent networked sensing, machine learning, and control. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Real-Time Systems for 20 years, and as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE Embedded Systems Letters, the ACM Transaction on Sensor Networks, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, ACM Transactions on Internet of Things, and the Ad Hoc Networks Journal. He chaired (as Program or General Chair) several conferences in his area including RTAS, RTSS, IPSN, Sensys, DCoSS, ICDCS, Infocom, and ICAC. Abdelzaher's research interests lie broadly in understanding and influencing performance and temporal properties of networked embedded, social, and software systems in the face of increasing complexity, distribution, and degree of interaction with an external physical environment. Tarek Abdelzaher is a recipient of the IEEE Outstanding Technical Achievement and Leadership Award in Real-time Systems (2012), the Xerox Award for Faculty Research (2011), as well as several best paper awards. He is a senior member of IEEE and a fellow of ACM.
Tarek Abdelzaher received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Michigan in 1999. He is currently a Professor and Willett Faculty Scholar at the Department of Computer Science, the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. He has authored/coauthored more than 300 refereed publications in real-time computing, CPS/IoT, distributed systems, intelligent networked sensing, machine learning, and control. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Real-Time Systems for 20 years, and as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE Embedded Systems Letters, the ACM Transaction on Sensor Networks, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, ACM Transactions on Internet of Things, and the Ad Hoc Networks Journal. He chaired (as Program or General Chair) several conferences in his area including RTAS, RTSS, IPSN, Sensys, DCoSS, ICDCS, Infocom, and ICAC. Abdelzaher's research interests lie broadly in understanding and influencing performance and temporal properties of networked embedded, social, and software systems in the face of increasing complexity, distribution, and degree of interaction with an external physical environment. Tarek Abdelzaher is a recipient of the IEEE Outstanding Technical Achievement and Leadership Award in Real-time Systems (2012), the Xerox Award for Faculty Research (2011), as well as several best paper awards. He is a senior member of IEEE and a fellow of ACM.
Tarek Abdelzaher received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Michigan in 1999. He is currently a Professor and Willett Faculty Scholar at the Department of Computer Science, the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. He has authored/coauthored more than 300 refereed publications in real-time computing, CPS/IoT, distributed systems, intelligent networked sensing, machine learning, and control. He served as Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Real-Time Systems for 20 years, and as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE Embedded Systems Letters, the ACM Transaction on Sensor Networks, ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, ACM Transactions on Internet of Things, and the Ad Hoc Networks Journal. He chaired (as Program or General Chair) several conferences in his area including RTAS, RTSS, IPSN, Sensys, DCoSS, ICDCS, Infocom, and ICAC. Abdelzaher's research interests lie broadly in understanding and influencing performance and temporal properties of networked embedded, social, and software systems in the face of increasing complexity, distribution, and degree of interaction with an external physical environment. Tarek Abdelzaher is a recipient of the IEEE Outstanding Technical Achievement and Leadership Award in Real-time Systems (2012), the Xerox Award for Faculty Research (2011), as well as several best paper awards. He is a senior member of IEEE and a fellow of ACM.
Teaching courses on Computer Vision, Pattern Recognition, Computer Engineering, Probability Theory, Robotics, and Knowledge Networks. In the last few years, co-developed two new interdisciplinary courses with colleagues from other departments: (1) "Visualizing and Navigating Knowledge Networks." Co-developed with Profs. N. Contractor of Dept. of Speech Communication and Prof. M. Twidale of School of Library and Information Science. Under Madden Grant, awarded by UIUC Chancellor's office. Taught twice. (2) "Image Structure, Content and Depiction." Co-developed with Prof. P. Dhillon of Dept. of Educational Policy Studies. Being taught in Spring 2008.
(1) Introduced a new computational approach to automatically extracting syntax of images, and using it for automated image understanding. We introduced automated ways of discovering, modeling, recognizing and explaining object categories occurring in arbitrary image sets without supervision and automatically organizing these categories into taxonomies. (2) Introduced a novel, Fourier based formulation for representation and synthesis of videos of dynamic textures. Conventionally, dynamic textures have been analyzed only in spatial domain.
Undergraduate student can participate in research projects in the areas of computer vision, pattern recognition, human computer interaction, novel cameras and image and video retrieval.
Abdussalam Alawini is a Teaching Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His educational journey started with a bachelor's degree in Computer Science from the University of Tripoli in 2002. He then worked in the industry for over six years as a database administrator, lead software developer, and IT Manager. In 2011, he returned to academia and received a master's in Computer Science and another master's degree in Engineering and Technology Management from Portland State University. He then received a doctoral degree in Computer Science from Portland State in 2016. In his Ph.D., he built systems to help scientists manage their file-based datasets by predicting relationships among spreadsheet documents. Passionate about a career in academia, Dr. Alawini joined the University of Pennsylvania in 2016 as a postdoctoral researcher. As a postdoc, he developed data citation and data provenance systems for scientists. Dr. Alawini's research interests are broadly in databases, applied machine learning, and education. He is particularly interested in applying machine learning methods to improve classroom experience and education in general. He is also interested in building next-generation data management systems, including data provenance, citation, and scientific management systems.
Nancy M. Amato is Head of the Computer Science Department and Abel Bliss Professor of Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She received undergraduate degrees in Mathematical Sciences and Economics from Stanford, and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from UC Berkeley and the University of Illinois, respectively. Before returning to her alma mater in 2019, she was Unocal Professor and Regents Professor at Texas A&M University and Senior Director of Engineering Honors Programs.
Research and student mentoring. Amato is known for algorithmic contributions to robotics task and motion planning, computational biology and geometry, and parallel and distributed computing. She has graduated 25 PhD students, with most going to faculty positions (12) or research positions in government or industry (9), and has worked with 30+ master's students, 100+ undergraduate researchers, and 10+ high school students. A majority of her students are from groups underrepresented in computing. Her group has developed several groundbreaking approaches for biasing sampling that have enabled sampling-based motion planning, the dominant approach in use today in robotics, to be applied in areas where it was not feasible before. She and her students were the first to use these methods to study protein motion and folding. She is also known for her work in computational geometry, including the development of approximate convex decomposition (ACD) for partitioning polyhedra, and parallel algorithms, including novel approaches for parallel graph traversals.
Amato's current research focus for robotics is exploring task planning and interaction in dynamic multi-robot systems, including collaboration with other robots and humans. In computational biology, she is interested studying protein-drug interaction and binding site accessibility. For all these, she is investigating methods that incorporate learning at various levels and leverage workspace topology. In parallel and distributed computing, she is continuing her longstanding collaboration with Lawrence Rauchwerger on the STAPL (Standard Templates Adaptive Parallel Library) project with a particular interest on approximate parallel algorithms for large and dynamic graphs.  She is also co-leading an exciting new multi-disciplinary and multi-university NSF Expeditions in Computing project – Mind in Vitro – that is seeking to build a computing system based on living biological neurons.
Leadership roles and broadening participation in computing. Amato has served in numerous leadership roles including CRA Board Chair (2021-2025), AAAS Section-T Chair (2021-2022), ACM Council Member-at-Large (2020-2024), and IEEE Robotics and Automation Society Vice President (2018-2021). She is passionate about broadening participation in computing and has worked at the international, national and local level. She has served as CRA-WP Co-Chair (2014-2017) and as NCWIT Academic Alliance Co-Chair (2009-2011). She has Co-Directed the CRA-WP Distributed REU (DREU) program since 2000; DREU is a national program that matches students from groups underrepresented in computing, including women, ethnic minorities and persons with disabilities, with a faculty mentor for a summer research experience at the faculty member's home institution. She was Program Chair for the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA) which featured an all-female organizing committee and 50% female invited speakers.
Recognition. Amato's honors include the 2019 IEEE RAS Saridis Leadership Award in Robotics and Automation, the inaugural NCWIT Harrold and Notkin Research and Graduate Mentoring Award in 2014, the inaugural NCWIT Harrold and Notkin Research and Graduate Mentoring Award in 2014, the A. Nico Habermann Award from the CRA in 2014 for her contributions to increasing diversity in computing, and the 2013 IEEE Education Society Hewlett-Packard/Harriet B. Rigas Award. She received Texas A&M university-level awards in research (2018) and teaching (2011), and the Betty M. Unterberger Award for Outstanding Service to Honors Education at Texas A&M in 2013. She received a CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation, and was an AT&T Bell Laboratories PhD Scholar. Amato is a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), and of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
Lawrence provides Undergraduate Research Opportunities through ClassTranscribe project and Scribe Augmented Reality Project. Summer internships, independent study, senior thesis and other credit earning activities are possible.
Lawrence provides Undergraduate Research Opportunities through ClassTranscribe project and Scribe Augmented Reality Project. Summer internships, independent study, senior thesis and other credit earning activities are possible.
My research interests lie in the area of computer security and privacy, especially as applied to large-scale distributed systems. My current focus is on anonymity: analysis of existing anonymous systems and the design of new peer-to-peer anonymous networks. In this research I take a systems approach, with rigorous, quantitative metrics of anonymity and analysis with help from simulations. I also work on other privacy enhancing technologies, such as techniques for privacy-preserving data aggregation, as well as research into building reliable and secure peer-to-peer networks.
My research is focused on the application of advanced computational  and statistical techniques to optimally extract knowledge to  astronomical data in an effort to better understand the Universe in  which we live. Specific application areas currently include:
 
 
My scientific interests are centered around novelty in science, impact, peer review, knowledge diffusion, and research community structure. A related interest is the social interactions that drive scientific recognition and achievement. Emphasis is placed on value to at least one of four stakeholders: (i) research funders, who want to know what their support has achieved and what it might in future, (ii) research institutions who ask the same questions as funders but are recipients of funds and must strategize to sustain their existing support and/or augment it, (iii) providers of research analytical services who think beyond the confines of commonplace global metrics such as the h-index and its well documented limitations, and (iv) the evaluation community.
I am presently working on the identification and characterization of research communities that form around scientific questions. The techniques used in my studies build upon work in scientometrics, sociology, science history, and computer science. A key part of the group experience is developing the ability to critically interpret the literature relevant to our interests. For this purpose, students are required to participate in a weekly journal club. The work I do is presently supported by a grant in 2022 from the Insper:Illinois collaboration as well as a research award from the Oracle Corporation.  We have funding for a PhD student to work on this project, which has many interesting dimensions so interested PhD students are encouraged to reach out. We have just submitted the first manuscript from the collaboration with Insper, Well-Connected Communities in Real-World Networks (2023) Park et al. , and a preprint is available. https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.02813 This work was done in collaboration with Fabio Ayres from Insper and Dmitriy Korobskiy from NTT DATA. We have a second project going with Charles Kirschbaum from Insper.
CS 597 offerings: I am willing to offer CS 597 courses for current PhD or MS students at UIUC who are looking for potential thesis topics. The research I can advise on (joint with Tandy Warnow) is presently focused on clustering and community detection with application to the real world problems of science mapping, research evaluation, and scientometrics.
Most recently, Vidya Kamath Pailodi and Vikram Ramavarapu, Master's students in CS, have been active in my research and have made splendid progress. Hossein Mohasel Arjomandi has just joined the group. Laxmi Vijayan and Haadi Elsaawy from the iCAN program are taking a CS 597 course with me this summer and are making great progress. Other students I have worked with are: Undergraduate. Hemank Kohli and Franklin Moy (ECE), Akhil Jakatdar, Isabella Nisperos, Trisha Manna (CS) Graduate: Elaina Wittmer, Sid Ahuja, Deep Kotadia (CS). Through collaboration with Tandy Warnow: Eleanor Wedell, Minhyuk Park, Baqiao Liu, Yasamin Tabatabaee (CS). João Alfredo Cardos Lamy from Insper made a brief visit this summer and will continue working with us with local guidance from Fabio Ayres. 
 
 
Chandrasekharan's research interests are at the intersection of Social Computing, Data Science and Human-centered AI.  Using a combination of computational techniques and social computing theories, his research aims to make advances on the problem of abusive behavior online with a long-term goal of making the Internet safer and more welcoming.
Kevin Chen-Chuan Chang is a Professor in Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He received a BS from National Taiwan University and PhD from Stanford University in Electrical Engineering. His research addresses large-scale information access and knowledge acquisition, for search, mining, and integration across structured and unstructured big data, with current focuses on Web search/mining and social media analytics. He received ICDE 10-Year Test of Time Award in 2022 and Best Paper Selection/Awards in VLDB 2000 and 2013 and ASONAM 2019, NSF CAREER Award in 2002, NCSA Faculty Fellow Award in 2003, IBM Faculty Awards in 2004 and 2005, Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Faculty Fellow Award in 2008, and the Incomplete List of Excellent Teachers at University of Illinois in 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2010, 2011, 2019, 2022, 2023. He is passionate to bring research results to the real world and, with his students, co-founded Cazoodle, a startup from the University of Illinois, and developed GrantForward.com funding discovery and dissemination service, a vertical search engine integrating 20,000 sources, subscribed by 200+ institutions including Harvard, Stanford, Yale, Cornell University, University of California, CMU, Mayo Clinic, and National Institutes of Health.
I lead the FORWARD Data Lab group, which is part of the larger Data and Information Systems Laboratories, at the CS department of UIUC. Our research overall aims at bridging structured and unstructured data— to bring structured/semantic-rich access to the myriad and massive unstructured data which accounts for most of the world’s information. Therefore, our research spans natural language processing, data mining, data management/databases, information retrieval, and machine learning. As our objectives, we aim at developing novel systems, principled algorithms, and formal theories that ultimately deliver real-world applications. As our approaches, we seek to be inspired by and learn from the data we are tackling-- i.e., we believe the key to tame big data is to learn the wisdom hidden in the large scale of the data.
Dr. Deming Chen obtained his BS in computer science from University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1995, and his MS and PhD in computer science from University of California at Los Angeles in 2001 and 2005 respectively. He worked as a software engineer between 1995-1999 and 2001-2002. He joined the ECE department of University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2005 and has been a full professor in the same department since 2015. He is a research professor in the Coordinated Science Laboratory and an affiliate professor in the CS department. His current research interests include reconfigurable computing, cloud computing, system-level and high-level synthesis, machine learning and IoT, and hardware security. He has given more than 130 invited talks sharing these research results worldwide.
Dr. Chen has been a technical committee member for a series of top conferences and symposia on EDA, FPGA, low-power design, and embedded systems design. He has also served as General or TPC Chair, Track Chair, Session Chair, Panelist, Panel Organizer, or Moderator for many of these conferences. He has been an associated editor for IEEE TCAD, ACM TODAES, IEEE TVLSI, ACM TRETS, IEEE TCAS-I and TCAS-II, IEEE Design & Test, IET Cyber-Physical Systems, JCSC, and JOLPE. He obtained the Achievement Award for Excellent Teamwork from Aplus Design Technologies in 2001, the Arnold O. Beckman Research Award from UIUC in 2007, the NSF CAREER Award in 2008, ten Best Paper Awards, a TCFPGA Hall-of-Fame paper award, and a few Best Poster Awards. He also received the ACM SIGDA Outstanding New Faculty Award in 2010, IBM Faculty Award in 2014 and 2015, and Google Faculty Award in 2020. In 2017 and 2019 respectively, he led a team to win the First Place Winner Award of DAC International System Design Contest. He is the Donald Willett Faculty Scholar and the Abel Bliss Professor of the Grainger College of Engineering, an IEEE Fellow, an ACM Distinguished Speaker, and the Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Reconfigurable Technology and Systems (TRETS). He is the Director of the AMD-Xilinx Center of Excellence and the Hybrid Cloud Thrust Co-lead in the IBM-Illinois Discovery Accelerator Institute. He has given a series of Keynote or Plenary speeches at various conferences. He is also included in the List of Teachers Ranked as Excellent in 2008 and 2017 from UIUC. 
Dr. Chen was involved in several startup companies. He implemented his published algorithm on CPLD technology mapping when he was a software engineer in Aplus Design Technologies, Inc. in 2001, and the software was exclusively licensed by Altera (now part of Intel) and distributed to many customers of Altera worldwide. He is one of the inventors of the xPilot High Level Synthesis package developed at UCLA, which was licensed to AutoESL Design Technologies, Inc. Aplus was acquired by Magma in 2003, and AutoESL was acquired by Xilinx in 2011. In 2016, he co-founded a new startup, Inspirit IoT, Inc.
The spectacular CMOS technology scaling has created a large design productivity gap due to inherent design complexities and deep submicron issues. Development cost, including both the design cost and manufacturing cost, of integrated circuits has grown significantly given the increasing size of the design team and the lengthy design cycles. Meanwhile, intensive computational demands arising from emerging workloads, such as those in various IoT and deep-learning related domains, require new architecture and hardware designs, novel automated design flows, and efficient accelerator deployments both at the edge and in the cloud. In this context, the research group led by Prof. Chen mainly pursues the following research directions: system-level and high-level design automation, machine learning and cognitive computing, hybrid cloud, hardware/software co-design, and FPGA and GPU computing. The group recently is also pursuing several other research directions, such as computational genomics and hardware system security.
We are recruiting. If you are passionate about research, inspired for innovation and impact, determined to pursue a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering, and your research interests match one or more topics as listed in the "RESEARCH INTERESTS" section below, please contact Prof. Chen directly through email and attach your detailed CV.
We are looking for committed and mature undergrad researchers for the following topics: FPGA and GPU computing, machine learning and hardware acceleration, high-level and system-level synthesis, and security in IoT and smart grid.
Delgosha's research interests are broadly in the areas of applied probability, information theory, game theory, machine learning and quantum information theory.
Minh N. Do received the B.Eng. degree in Computer Engineering from the University of Canberra, Australia, in 1997, and the Dr.Sci. degree in Communication Systems from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (EPFL) in 2001.  Since 2002, he has been on the faculty at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he is currently the Thomas and Margaret Huang Endowed Professor in Signal Processing & Data Science in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and holds affiliate appointments with the Coordinated Science Laboratory, the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, the Department of Bioengineering, and the Department of Computer Science.  He received a Silver Medal from the 32nd International Mathematical Olympiad in 1991, University Medal from the University of Canberra in 1997, Doctorate Award from the EPFL in 2001, CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation in 2003,  Xerox Award for Faculty Research from UIUC in 2007, and Young Author Best Paper Award from IEEE in 2008.  He was an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, and a member of several IEEE Technical Committees on Signal Processing.  He was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2014 for his contributions to image representation and computational imaging.  He has contributed to several tech-transfer efforts, including as a co-founder and CTO of Personify and Chief Scientist of Misfit.  During 2020-2021 he served as the Vice-Provost, and then continues as Honorary Vice-Provost, for VinUniversity, the first private, not-for-profit Vietnamese university established based on international standards.
Program is focused on cyber-physical and complex systems with applications to mechanical, electrical, and computer systems. Professor Dullerud is particularly interested in networked, distributed and mobile cyber-physical settings. His areas of current research interest include convex optimization and machine learning in control, cyber-physical system security, cooperative robotics, stochastic simulation, and hybrid dynamical systems.
El-Kebir received his PhD in Computer Science at VU University Amsterdam and Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica  (2015) under the direction of Jaap Heringa and Gunnar Klau. He did postdoctoral training with Ben Raphael at Brown University and Princeton University (2014-2017). In 2018, he joined the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign as an Assistant Professor of Computer Science. El-Kebir has affiliate faculty appointments in Electrical and Computer Engineering, the Institute of Genomic Biology and the National Center for Supercomputing Applications. He received the National Science Foundation CISE Research Initiation Initiative (CRII) Award in 2019 and the CAREER Award in 2021.
El-Kebir's main research is in combinatorial optimization algorithms for problems in computational biology, with a particular focus on cancer genomics. Among his major contributions are advances in the theoretical foundations of cancer phylogenetics (e.g., hardness proofs for phylogeny estimation problems from mixture data), methods for the estimation of cancer phylogenies from sequencing data of tumors, and new mathematical models for studying cancer evolution and metastasis.
El-Kebir's current focus is on developing methods that enable the estimation of cancer phylogenies from single-cell sequencing data. A specific challenge he is addressing is the integration of data obtained from the same tumor using distinct single-cell technologies. Another focus is the development of comprehensive evolutionary models for somatic mutations that occur at varying genomic scales. More generally, El-Kebir is developing novel problem statements and corresponding methods to analyze omics data in novel ways, thereby improving scientific discovery.
I have been a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science since 1998 and a full professor since 2010; I was named a Sohaib and Sara Abbasi Professor in 2020. I have published over 100 technical papers in computational geometry, computational topology, graph algorithms, and related topics at the intersection of computer science and mathematics. Among many other conference committee memberships, I was the chair of the community-elected steering committee for the International Symposium on Computational Geometry (SOCG) from 2013 to 2016, and I am currently a SafeTOC (anti-harassment) advocate for SOCG and for the ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA).
I primarily teach large algorithms classes; my free Algorithms textbook is used in dozens of computer science departments and by myriads of of students, recruiters, and professionals around the world. I have been an Education Innovation Fellow in the Grainger College of Engineering's Academy of Excellence in Engineering Education. More than half of my former PhD students have tenure, almost half have won NSF CAREER awards, and my grand-students outnumber my students. My own awards include a Sloan Research Fellowship, an NSF CAREER award, and numerous teaching and research awards from the University of Illinois.
At various times in my professional life I have been an associate department head, the chair of the faculty advisory committee, the manager of a software development project, an Apple II assembly-language programmer, a disk jockey, a pizza cook, and a knot-tying instructor at a Boy Scout camp. My current favorite brands of espresso are Unicorn Blood by Dark Matter and Redacted by Blue Copper. Please see http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/cv.pdf for a detailed curriculum vitae.
I primarily teach courses in algorithms. My free algorithms textbook, along with an extensive archive of related course materials, is available at http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/. Please send me bug reports!
For a complete overview of my research activities, please see my publication archive at http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/pubs/.
Wade Fagen-Ulmschneider is a Teaching Associate Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). With a passion for data, he often teaches thousands of students each year in his courses on Data Structures, Data Visualization, and Data Science. He was selected as one of the National Academy of Engineering’s Frontiers of Engineering Education scholars, awarded the Collins Award for Innovation Teaching, and has been consistently ranked as an excellent instructor by his students for the past ten years. His work on data visualizations has been used by governors of multiple states, featured by websites including Popular Mechanics and The Verge, and has been viewed by millions of readers.
I am looking for motivated graduate students who are interested in joining me at Illinois, so if that sounds like you, please contact me!
Brighten Godfrey is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He co-founded and served as CTO of network verification pioneer Veriflow through its 2019 acquisition by VMware, where he now serves as a Technical Director. He received his Ph.D. at UC Berkeley in 2009, and his B.S. at Carnegie Mellon University in 2002. His research interests lie in the design of networked systems and algorithms. He is a winner of the ACM SIGCOMM Rising Star Award, the UIUC Dean's Award for Excellence in Research, the Sloan Research Fellowship, an Internet2 Innovative Application Award, the National Science Foundation CAREER Award, and multiple best paper awards.  He was a Beckman Fellow at the UIUC Center for Advanced Study in 2014-2015, and has served as program committee co-chair of ACM SIGCOMM, ACM HotNets and the Symposium on SDN Research.  He is currently serving as a member of the ACM SIGCOMM Steering Committee.
Contact Brighten via email or in person if you are interested in pursuing undergraduate research opportunities.
 Dr. Mani Golparvar is Professor of Civil Engineering, Computer Science, & Technology Entrepreneurship, Faculty Entrepreneurial Fellow, Excellence Faculty Fellow, and the director of the Real-time and Automated Monitoring and Control (RAAMAC) lab at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). He received his Ph.D. degree in Civil Engineering and MS degree in Computer Science from UIUC in 2010, MASc in Civil Engineering from the University of British Columbia in 2006, and MS and BS in Civil Engineering from Iran University of Science and Technology in 2005 and 2002 respectively. Prior to joining the faculty at UIUC, he was an Assistant Professor in Civil Engrg at Virginia Tech.

Dr. Golparvar has worked with many national and international construction companies and most extensively with Turner Construction. Dr. Golparvar-Fard has several patents and is currently involved with Reconstruct Inc., an early-stage technology company with $28 million in venture capital funding that was founded based on the outcomes of his ongoing research projects.

 He is the recipient of the 2018 Walter Huber Research Prize from the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), 2017 Young Professional Award from Engineering News-Record (ENR), 2016 ASCE Dan H. Halpin Award for Scholarship in Construction, 2013 ASCE James R. Croes Medal for innovation in Civil Engrg, 2013 FIATECH CETI award for outstanding researcher, 2012 best paper award from the ASCE Journal of Construction Engrg and Management, and numerous conference paper awards. Dr. Golparvar serves on the editorial board of the ASCE Journal of Computing in Civil Engineering, ASCE Journal of Construction Engrg and Management, and Elsevier Journal of Automation in Construction.  He is also the founder of RECONSTRUCT, a startup company that offers visual data analytics to construction projects. The underlying technology is licensed from UIUC and is recognized by several awards including an Innovation Award from Turner Construction Company in 2015 and 016 World Economic Forum's most innovative startup company.
William Gropp is Director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and holds the Thomas M. Siebel Chair in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1982.  He was on the faculty of the Computer Science Department of Yale University from 1982-1990 and from 1990-2007, he was a member of the Mathematics and Computer Science Division at Argonne National Laboratory.  His research interests are in parallel computing, software for scientific computing, and numerical methods for partial differential equations.  He is a Fellow of AAAS, ACM, IEEE, and SIAM and a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
I am an environmental scientist and an innovator creating science- and artificial intelligence-based solutions to ensure sustainability of food security and the environment. I am currently the Blue Waters Associate Professor in ecohydrology and remote sensing at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). I am also the founding director of the Agroecosystem Sustainability Center at UIUC. My research group uses satellite data, computational models, fieldwork, and machine learning approaches to address how climate and human practices affect crop productivity, water resource availability and ecosystem functioning. My group has keen interests in solving real-life problems, such as large-scale crop monitoring and forecasting, water management and sustainability, and global food security. We have published 100+ papers in leading scientific journals, including Science, Nature, Global Change Biology, etc. Our group leads 20+ major federal research projects funded by NASA, DOE, NSF and USDA. 
More information can be found at: http://faculty.nres.illinois.edu/~kaiyuguan/.
I have plans to recruit graduate students and postdocs with full supports in the coming years in the area of "crop remote sensing and modeling." 
TL;DR: Today, one can't escape Distributed Systems. They are all around us---from the datacenters and clouds we use directly or indirectly every day; to smart devices, smart homes, and smart buildings/cities; to machine learning running inside AI systems online and in the physical world. Yet many common concepts, algorithms, and systems design and implementation techniques, pervade and permeate through many of these seemingly disparate types of distributed systems. Prof. Indranil Gupta (Indy) does research and teaching on these topics. His research is driven by a love of working on real problems (very often motivated by industry), devising solutions with intellectual depth, and then implementing and evaluating them with real testbeds and systems. He also collaborates with industry production teams. His group is one of the most diverse in the CS department. He teaches the world's largest (online) class on distributed systems, apart from regular on-campus teaching. Sometimes he improvises music to teach Computer Science.
In Detail:
Prof. Indranil Gupta (Indy) is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Indy leads the Distributed Protocols Research Group in the CS Department at UIUC. He is interested in research on distributed systems, with specific focus on large-scale distributed systems such as datacenters. cloud computing systems, IoT, Distributed Machine Learning, etc.  Indranil Gupta is an ACM Distinguished Scientist and IEEE Senior Member. Indranil is recipient of the the NSF CAREER award in 2005, the Junior Xerox Award for Faculty Research in 2008, the CAS/Beckman Fellowship in 2009, and the Academy for Entrepreneurial Leadership Faculty Fellowship in 2010. He has won Best Paper Awards at IEEE IC2E 2018, IEEE/ACM CCGrid 2017, IEEE IC2E 2016, IEEE ICAC 2015 and BigMine 2012. Indranil has received teaching recognition in the UIUC "List of Teachers ranked as Excellent" multiple times since 2003. He served as General Chair of ACM PODC 2007; PC co-chair at multiple conferences over the years (Usenix HotCloud 2018, IEEE IC2E 2017, LADIS 2017, IEEE ICCAC 2016, ACM DeMiST 2016, IEEE P2P 2014, ACM/IFIP/Usenix Middleware 2010, IEEE SASO 2010 and StoDiS 2005). He is on the editorial board for both ACM TAAS (Transactions on Autonomous and Adaptive Systems) and IEEE TCC (Transactions on Cloud Computing). Previously, Indranil received his PhD in Computer Science from Cornell University in 2004. He has worked at Google (2011-12), IBM Research (T.J. Watson) and Microsoft Research (Cambridge, UK). Indranil obtained his Bachelor of Technology (Computer Science) from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Chennai/Madras, in 1998.
Indy is a world leader in inventing and implementing novel systems techniques that make distributed systems more reliable, predictable, and manageable. These include contributions and interests in both: a) core Distributed Systems topics, as well as b) Distributed Systems + X topics. Core distributed systems topics include batch processing, stream processing, and distributed storage---in all these areas his work has solved problems faced by open-source distributed systems used widely in industry. In the past he has worked on peer to peer systems, and nature-inspired distributed systems. Distributed Systems + X topics include collaborations and research results in Distributed Machine Learning, Distributed Systems + IoT, verification of Distributed Systems, and others. Prof. Gupta also collaborates with industry, contributing to their production systems as well as helping shine light on their production systems. His research results are in use by multiple prominent companies.  Prof. Gupta runs one of the most diverse groups in the CS department---about 50% of his PhD students are women.
For more research information, papers, slides, and software see the website of Prof. Gupta's "Distributed Protocols Research Group" (DPRG): http://dprg.cs.uiuc.edu/ 
Prof. Indranil Gupta (Indy) is also a leader in democratizing the teaching of distributed systems. He teaches the world's largest (online) course on Distributed Systems. Offered via Coursera, his "Cloud Computing Concepts" courses (Parts 1 and 2) together have about 100k students annually, and are used by companies, startups, and taken by students of all generations, across 198 countries. In addition, Indy loves teaching in the classroom and handles classes of up to 500 students per semester, who are all excited to learn about distributed systems!
Since you made it this far in the bio (or perhaps you jumped ahead strategically---either way, nice work!), you get a prize! Did you know that Indy has a Youtube channel where he improvises songs to teach Distributed Systems concepts and on topics related to CS Research? Check out one of his videos here! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dG2wmdkkeY0
John C. Hart is Professor and Director of Online and Professional Programs in the Department of Computer Science, and the Executive Associate Dean of the Graduate College of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research on computer graphics and data visualization has been supported by Adobe, AT&T, DARPA, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Nokia, NVIDIA and the NSF. He has worked with graphics hardware manufacturers, defense contractors, visual effects studios, game developers and a medical imaging startup, and has provided IP expertise for Microsoft, NVIDIA, AMD, Samsung and others.
Prof. Hart recently designed, launched and directs the Master of Computer Science in Data Science program, an innovative new online masters degree program in data science offered by the University of Illinois through the Coursera scalable learning platform. Now only in its third year, this online MCS has grown to be UIUC’s second largest graduate program. His “Data Visualization” MOOC on the Coursera platform has reached over 360,000 learners.
Prof. Hart is the graphics area editor for ACM Books, a past Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Graphics, a past member of the ACM SIGGRAPH Executive Committee, a co-author of “Real-Time Shading,” a contributing author to “Texturing and Modeling: A Procedural Approach,” and an executive producer of the documentary “The Story of Computer Graphics.” Prof. Hart received his Ph.D. from the Electronic Visualization Laboratory at the University of Illinois at Chicago in 1991.
Mark Hasegawa-Johnson has been on the faculty at the University of Illinois since 1999, where he is currently a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering.  He received his Ph.D. in 1996 at MIT, with a thesis titled "Formant and Burst Spectral Measures with Quantitative Error Models for Speech Sound Classification," after which he was a post-doc at UCLA from 1996-1999.  Prof. Hasegawa-Johnson is a Fellow of the Acoustical Society of America (2011, for contributions to vocal tract and speech modeling) and a Fellow of the IEEE (2020, for contributions to speech processing of under-resourced languages).  He is currently Senior Area Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech and Language, and a member of the  ISCA Diversity Committee.  He has published 308 peer-reviewed journal articles, patents and conference papers in the general area of automatic speech analysis, including machine learning models of articulatory and acoustic phonetics, prosody, dysarthria, non-speech acoustic events, audio source separation, and under-resourced languages.
Professor Hasegawa-Johnson typically teaches Artificial Intelligence (CS 440/ECE 448), Multimedia Signal Processing (ECE 417), Speech Processing (ECE 537), and Speech and Image Analysis (ECE 401).  He has also taught Digital Signal Processing (ECE 551), Audio Engineering (ECE 403), Pattern Recognition (ECE 544NA), and Probability (ECE 313).
Dr. Hasegawa-Johnson's research is focused on the area of automatic speech recognition, with a particular focus on the mathematization of linguistic concepts. In the past five years, Dr. Hasegawa-Johnson's group has developed mathematical models of concepts from linguistics including a rudimentary model of pre-conscious speech perception (the landmark-based speech recognizer), a model that interprets pronunciation variability by figuring out how the talker planned his or her speech movements (tracking of tract variables from acoustics, and of gestures from tract variables), and a model that uses the stress and rhythm of natural language (prosody) to disambiguate confusable sentences. Recent application successes include:
* Speech recognition for talkers with cerebral palsy.  The automatic system, suitably constrained, outperforms a human listener.
* Retrieval of broadcast television segments in four languages, based on queries specified in the international phonetic alphabet.  The Illinois team, including students of Prof. Hasegawa-Johnson and Prof. Huang, took third place in this international competition, and was the only finalist from the United States.
* Automatic detection and labeling of non-speech audio events.  The Illinois team, including students of Prof. Hasegawa-Johnson and Prof. Huang, took first place in this international competition.
* Teaching Chinese.  Software and methods developed by Prof. Hasegawa-Johnson, together with his colleagues from Linguistics and Psychology, are being tested in Mandarin language classrooms at the University of Illinois.
Professor Hasegawa-Johnson typically supervises one or two undergraduate research projects per year, thesis research preferred.  Past student theses include automatic recognition of musical genre, factorial HMMs for the automatic recognition of speech in music backgrounds, prosody-dependent speech recognition, image source modeling of room impulse response, sonorancy classification for automatic language ID, phonetic landmark detection for automatic language ID, and digital field recorder for acquisition of a natural audio database.
Kris Hauser is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science, the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and the Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research interests lie in robot planning and control, a field devoted to providing the decision-making capabilities needed for robots and other intelligent agents to perform complex physical tasks. His research builds upon the theoretical foundations of state space dynamics and optimality, but attempts to overcome the shortcomings of classical theory when faced the complexities of real-world systems, such as high dimensionality, uncertain dynamics, bounded computation, and integration with perception and learning. The methodologies at the foundation of this work include optimization, probabilistic methods, AI, control theory, and physics simulation, and theory is bridged with practice on real-world physical robots in the context of a diverse range of applications with social impact, including robot locomotion and manipulation, medical robots, human-operated robots, warehouse automation, and intelligent vehicles. 
Prof. Hauser received his PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2008, bachelor's degrees in Computer Science and Mathematics from UC Berkeley in 2003, and worked as a postdoctoral fellow at UC Berkeley. He then joined the faculty at Indiana University from 2009-2014, where he started the Intelligent Motion Lab, and then joined the faculty of Duke University from 2014-2019. Prof. Hauser is a recipient of a Stanford Graduate Fellowship, Siebel Scholar Fellowship, Best Paper Award at IEEE International Conference on Humanoid Robots 2015, the NSF CAREER award, and two Amazon Research Awards. He also works as a consultant for Google's autonomous driving company, Waymo.
I frequently involve undergraduates in my research, both as independent study students and summer interns. My lab also participates in competitions, so I also take on students who are interested in contributing to a team effort. My minimum guidelines are that you have a 3.7 GPA, relevant coursework, and can contribute at least 10 hours per week to research.
Michael T. Heath is Professor and Fulton Watson Copp Chair Emeritus in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He received his PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University in 1978. His research interests are in scientific computing, particularly numerical linear algebra and optimization, and in parallel computing. He is an ACM Fellow, a SIAM Fellow, an Associate Fellow of the AIAA, and a member of the European Academy of Sciences.  He served as Director of the Computational Science and Engineering Program 1996-2012, Director of the Center for Simulation of Advanced Rockets 1997-2010, and Interim Head of the Department of Computer Science 2007-2009.  Heath has been lead investigator on more than $52M in research funding from federal and corporate grants and contracts at the University of Illinois.
Prof. Heath teaches courses in scientific computing, particularly CS 450 (Numerical Analysis) and CS 554 (Parallel Numerical Algorithms).  He has also developed an extensive set of online interactive educational modules in scientific computing (see http://www.cs.illinois.edu/~heath/iem/). He has won numerous teaching awards, including the William L. Everitt Award for Teaching Excellence (1998), the Campus Award for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching (2002), and the Taylor L. Booth Education Award from the IEEE Computer Society (2009).
Prof. Heath's research interests are in scientific computing, particularly numerical linear algebra and optimization, and in parallel computing.
Dr. Geoffrey L. Herman is the Severns Teaching Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He earned his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer engineering from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Cha¬mpaign as a Mavis Future Faculty Fellow and conducted postdoctoral research in the School of Engineering Education at Purdue University. 
His was awarded the IEEE Education Society Mac Van Valkenburg Early Career Teaching Award and the Scott H. Fisher Computer Science Teaching Award. He helped found the Grainger College of Engineering’s Strategic Instructional Innovations Program, which has been empowering faculty innovation in teaching for over 10 years and has provided seed funding that has led to several millions of dollars in external grant funding and hundreds of research papers. He is also a leader in faculty professional development, leading national workshops on professional development for computer science teaching faculty and creating peer mentoring networks for engineering teaching faculty through the Teaching Professionals Program. 
His research focuses on how students learn engineering and computing concepts and studying processes for creating systemic change in how engineering and computer science are taught in college settings. His research on students’ misconceptions in programming was awarded the best paper in the first 50 years of the ACM Special Interest Group, Computer Science Education. His research has been awarded over $7 million in external funding and has resulted in over 120 peer-reviewed journal articles and conference papers. 
He is a board member of the Computer Research Association Education committee. He is also an associate editor for the Journal of Engineering Education.
Students are humans.
Students are not brains on sticks. When I first began teaching, I missed this. I focused so much on crafting perfect explanations and was dismayed when students didn’t learn well. I responded by studying cognitive psychology to understand why learning is difficult. This knowledge improved my teaching, but was also inadequate, addressing my students’ cognition but not the rest of their being. Students come to my courses with complex and varied motivations, experiences, and knowledge all contextualized by history, politics, and culture. I’ve since become a student of organizational psychology, sociology, counseling psychology, and history. I’m beginning to understand the systemic factors that give some students a head start and keep others shackled at the starting line. I’ve started to scratch the surface of how things like cultural narratives and social media can paralyze students with fears of inadequacy and drive them away from a field where they could thrive. I am cultivating what I hope is a holistic teaching philosophy that embraces the needs of all my students. 
I design sequences of activities that require students to put their knowledge and skills into action. Before coming to class in CS 233 Computer Architecture, students watch short video lectures and then complete a short, autograded assignment. Then in class, students solve problems on the same material in a group with their peers. These assignments require students to use their knowledge in many ways, explaining their reasoning to peers, answering autograded questions, and wrestling with reflection questions that ask them why a solution was sufficient or how concepts interact. These multi-modality activities are critical for helping students develop robust knowledge and the ability to use it flexibly. Students then engage the same material yet again after class through short homework assignments and longer lab assignments. I try to directly build on knowledge from one module to the next. If not possible, I assign short exercises late in the semester to remind students of content from earlier in the course. The possibility of success or failure, the immediate feedback, the minimal points, and the repeated exercises on the same content all help students’ bodies and minds experience the information as important and give them enough practice to begin automating their use of knowledge to achieve higher-level performance.
I design my courses with my students’ mental and emotional health in mind. While some stress is needed to trigger deeper learning, too much stress makes learning impossible. Rather than having a few high-stakes exams, I use many lower stakes quizzes to minimize test anxiety. I also provide students with a second chance on quizzes for when they perform poorly. These techniques make stress more manageable and also reinforce active learning with spaced repetition in their learning. 
I also share about my own struggles with mental health and frequently remind students about the accommodations we provide. The use of frequent assessments and course rhythms helps me detect when students are struggling. For example, students who are struggling with their emotional health during my class frequently start by missing deadlines for the labs and then missing quizzes and then homework assignments. By monitoring when students miss multiple deadlines, I have been better able to reach out to students before they enter a freefall and get them the help and accommodations they need. 
I use collaborative learning for my in-class activities to fight these historic injustices. We require all students in CS 233 to rotate group members for the first couple weeks of the semester so that isolated students have a chance to network and build their social capital and find study partners. When we need to assign students to teams, we make sure that students from minoritized groups are not isolated on their teams but get to see other minoritized students in CS and normalize their own presence. I also focus on hiring students from underrepresented groups to my course staff to help student teams during class and further increase their visible representation in my classroom. Collaborative learning also provides a context where students feel that they are not alone in their struggles to learn but instead build connections with others through shared struggles. The use of collaborative learning also gives me the freedom to devote more of my attention and energy to students who are struggling. When helping teams during class, I normalize failure and struggle by always reinforcing that each team had a question or made a mistake that I had seen other teams have and that groups were not alone in their struggles. I essentially get to give 8 hours of individualized attention to students every week, even in a class of 400.
I am committed to continuing to learn as a teacher and grow as a person so that I can better dignify and humanize my students, caring for their whole persons and not just their learning outcomes.
I mentor students who are interested in engineering education research and who are interested in learning how to design better instruction.
I welcome any student who is interested in improving engineering and computer science education to join me in improving their own learning experiences and those of their peers through undergraduate research opportunities. I am currently primarily interested in studying how we can help students learn in courses like CS 225 (Data Structures) and CS 233 (Computer Architecture) and in how we can use technologies like the Computer-Based Testing Facility to help students learn more.
Hoiem received his Ph.D. in Robotics at Carnegie Mellon
University in 2007 advised by Alexei Efros and Martial Hebert and completed
a postdoctoral fellowship at the Beckman Institute in Urbana, Champaign
in 2008. Hoiem joined the University of Illinois as an assistant professor
in Computer Science in 2009 and now holds the rank of tenured associate
professor, with affiliate appointments in ECE and the Beckman Institute.
Awards include the ACM Doctoral Dissertation Award honorable mention,
CVPR best paper award, Intel Early Career Faculty award, Sloan Fellowship,
and IEEE PAMI Young Researcher award. Hoiem is also co-founder and
Chief Science Officer of Reconstruct, a company that uses computer vision
techniques to improve construction and inspection.
My general research interests are in security and systems, with emphasis on the areas of secure systems and mobile communications. I have published papers in the areas of secure Internet routing, secure routing in wireless ad hoc networks, security and anonymity in peer-to-peer networks, efficient cryptographic mechanisms for routing security, and design and evaluation of ad hoc network routing protocols. In my future research, I will continue to build new systems with lightweight and minimally intrusive security. I will build systems that preserve privacy and anonymity in wireless networks to overcome attackers that can correlate individual wireless transmissions. In environments where user cooperation can be a public good, I will design techniques that incentivize user cooperation while minimizing the impact of malicious players. I will design and use evaluation frameworks that objectively, quantifiably, and rigorously measure the performance of secure systems under attack. I will also build backwards-compatible, incrementally-deployable lightweight security mechanisms for widely-deployed protocols with insufficient security.
Ravishankar K. Iyer is George and Ann Fisher Distinguished Professor of Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He holds joint appointments in the Departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science, in the Coordinated Science Laboratory (CSL), the National Center for Supercomputing Applications, the Carle Illinois College of Medicine, and the Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology. He is also faculty Research Affiliate at the Mayo Clinic, and Yeoh Ghin Seng Distinguished Visiting Professor of the National University Health System, Singapore.
Professor Iyer leads the DEPEND Group at CSL, with a multidisciplinary focus on systems and software that combine deep measurement driven analytics and machine learning with applications in two important domains: i) trust (that spans resilience and the security of critical infrastructures) and ii) health (that spans computational genomics and health analytics focused on personalized medicine). The Depend Group has developed a rich AI analytics framework that has been deployed on real-world applications in collaborations with industry, health providers, and government agencies including NSF, NIH, and DoD. Iyer directs the Illinois/Mayo NSF Center for Computational Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine (CCBGM). 
Professor Iyer is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS), the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). He has received several awards, including the IEEE Emanuel R. Piore Award, and the 2011 Outstanding Contributions award by the Association of Computing Machinery. Professor Iyer is also the recipient of the degree of Doctor Honoris Causa from Toulouse Sabatier University in France.
Heng Ji is a professor at Computer Science Department of University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She received her B.A. and M. A. in Computational Linguistics from Tsinghua University, and her M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer Science from New York University. Her research interests focus on Natural Language Processing, especially on Information Extraction and Knowledge Base Population. She is selected as "Young Scientist" and a member of the Global Future Council on the Future of Computing by the World Economic Forum in 2016 and 2017. The awards she received include "AI's 10 to Watch" Award by IEEE Intelligent Systems in 2013, NSF CAREER award in 2009, PACLIC2012 Best paper runner-up, "Best of ICDM2013" paper award, "Best of SDM2013" paper award, ACL2018 Best Demo paper nomination, Google Research Award in 2009 and 2014, IBM Watson Faculty Award in 2012 and 2014 and Bosch Research Award in 2014-2018.  She has coordinated the NIST TAC Knowledge Base Population task since 2010. She is the associate editor for IEEE/ACM Transaction on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing. She has served as the Program Committee Co-Chair of NAACL-HLT2018, NLP-NABD2018, NLPCC2015, CSCKG2016 and CCL2019, and senior area chair for many conferences. She has led several multi-institute research efforts including DARPA DEFT Tinker Bell team of seven universities and DARPA KAIROS RESIN team of six universities. She is the task leader of the U.S. ARL projects on information fusion and knowledge networks construction between 2009-2019.  She is invited by the Secretary of the Air Force and AFRL to join Air Force Data Analytics Expert Panel to inform the Air Force Strategy 2030.
Daniel's research focuses on making analytics with machine learning (ML) easy for scientists and analysts to use. For his dissertation, Daniel worked a particular emphasis on video analytics and data systems for deploying ML.
His research has been supported by Google, the Open Philanthropy project, and others. At Illinois CS, Daniel is actively recruiting PhD students for fall 2023. Those interested can connect with him via email.
Dakshita Khurana is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science. She works in Cryptography and related topics in Privacy, Security and  Theoretical Computer Science. She obtained her PhD from UCLA, under the  fantastic supervision of Prof. Rafail Ostrovsky and Prof. Amit Sahai.
 She was recently a Google Research Fellow at the Simons Institute, Berkeley, and was names to Forbes List of 30 under 30 in Science. She has previously received the 2017-18 Dissertation Year  Fellowship, the 2017-18 UCLA CS Outstanding Graduating Ph. D. Student  Award, 2017-18 Symantec Outstanding Graduate Student Research Award, and  the 2016-17 Cisco Outstanding Graduate Student Research Award.
I am looking for motivated students. Please apply and email me if you are interested in working with me.
I am the  W.J. ‘Jerry’ Sanders III – Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Endowed Chair Professor at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign and a fellow of both ACM and IEEE. From 2018 to 2020, I took a leave of absence and as a Sr. Vice President at a major memory manufacturing company I led the development of next-generation DRAM products , including the industry's first HBM-PIM that will play a significant role in shaping the future computing landscape. Prior to joining the University of Illinois in the fall of 2015, I was an associate professor at the University of Wisconsin, Madison where I was early-tenured in 2013. My interdisciplinary research incorporates device, circuit, architecture, and software for power-efficient computing. Prior to joining the University of Wisconsin, Madison, I was a senior research scientist at Intel from 2004 to 2008, where I conducted research in power-efficient digital circuit and process architecture. I have published more than 200 refereed articles to highly-selective conferences and journals in the field of digital circuit, processor architecture, and computer-aided design. The top three most frequently cited papers have more than 4500 citations and  the total number of citations of all my papers exceeds 12000. I was a recipient of the IEEE Design Automation Conference (DAC) Student Design Contest Award in 2001, Intel Fellowship in 2002, the IEEE International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO) Best Paper Award in 2003, NSF CAREER Award in 2010, IBM Faculty Award in 2011 and 2012, the University of Wisconsin Villas Associates Award in 2015, ACM/IEEE Most Influential International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA) Paper Award in 2017, and SIGMICRO 2021 Test of Time Awards in 2021. I am a hall of fame member of all three major computer architecture conferences, IEEE International Symposium on High-Performance Computer Architecture (HPCA) , MICRO, and ISCA. I earned a PhD degree in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor and Master and Bachelor degrees in Electrical Engineering from the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology.
Volodymyr Kindratenko is an Assistant Director at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where he serves as the Director for the Center for Artificial Intelligence Innovation (CAII).  He holds an Adjunct Associate Professor appointment in the Departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) and a Research Associate Professor appointment in the Department of Computer Science (CS). Prior to becoming the Director of CAII, he was leading NCSA's Innovative Systems Laboratory—a center-wide research effort to investigate and evaluate emerging compute technologies for high-performance computing applications. Dr. Kindratenko received D.Sc. degree from the University of Antwerp, Belgium, in 1997. His research interests include high-performance computing, special-purpose computing architectures, cloud computing, and machine learning systems and applications. He serves as a department editor of IEEE Computing in Science and Engineering magazine and an associate editor of the International Journal of Reconfigurable Computing. Dr. Kindratenko’s work has been funded by NSF, NASA, ONR, DOE, and industry. He has published over 70 papers in refereed scientific journals and conference proceedings and holds five US patents. He is a Senior Member of IEEE and ACM. 
I teach computer engineering undergraduate courses in digital logic, computing systems design and programming.
My research interests include high-performance computing, special-purpose computing architectures, AI and machine learning systems and applications. I work on the development and deployment of next-generation HPC systems based on computational accelerators and on the design and implementation of scientific applications for such systems.
Students with strong programming skills interested in exploring special-purpose and accelerator-based architectures an machine learning, deep learning, AI. 
Andreas Klöckner is an associate professor in the scientific computing area within the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research focuses on high-order accurate integral equation methods and fast algorithms for elliptic boundary value problems as well as code transformation for high-performance scientific computing. He is the recipient of a 2017 National Science Foundation CAREER Award. In support of his research, Dr. Klöckner has released numerous scientific software packages. Previously, he was a Courant Instructor at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at New York University with Leslie Greengard, after obtaining his PhD degree from the Division of Applied Mathematics at Brown University in 2010 with Jan Hesthaven.
Rakesh Kumar is a Professor and John Bardeen Faculty Scholar in the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign with research and teaching interests in computer architecture and system-level design automation. His research has been recognized through an ISCA Influential Paper Award, a MICRO Test-of-Time Award, an ICCAD Ten Year Retrospective Most Influential Paper Award, an ASPDAC 10 Year Retrospective Most Influential Paper (MIP) Award, three selections to ISCA-50 Retrospective, several best paper awards and best paper award nominations (IEEE MICRO Top Picks, ISCA, ASPLOS, HPCA, CASES, SELSE, IEEE CAL), IIT Kharagpur Young Alumni Achiever Award, ARO Young Investigator Award, and UCSD CSE Best Dissertation Award. His teaching and advising have been recognized through Stanley H Pierce Faculty Award and Ronald W Pratt Faculty Outstanding Teaching Award. He often writes about issues at the intersection of technology, policy, and society  and has commented on semiconductor issues for The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, BBC, and Fortune, among others. His book Reluctant Technophiles (Sage Select: Dec 2021) was one of "GQ's Best Indian Non-fiction Books of 2021". Rakesh has a BS from IIT Kharagpur and a PhD from University of California at San Diego.
Our work spans all layers of the computing stack - circuits, architectures, compilers, systems, and applications. A typical member of my research  group is creative, hardworking, motivated, and ambitious. He/she has strong programming skills, with a background in circuits, CAD, or computer architecture. He/she is open to learning new skills and considers hard problems as particularly interesting. Students who do not fit the above profile are, in general, not good fits. 
I am always looking for motivated and exceptional undergraduate students to join my group. Email rakeshk@illinois.edu if you want to do research in computer architecture. See our research/publications pages (http://passat.crhc.uiuc.edu) for a sampling of our research. Please attach your CV as well.
Professor LaValle is interested primarily in the design of planning algorithms. His focus is mainly on problems that involve continuous spaces, complicated geometric constraints, differential constraints, and/or sensing uncertainties. Such problems are fundamental in areas such as robotics, computer graphics, architectural design, and computational biology. The planning techniques developed in his research group build on literature from robotics, algorithms, computational geometry, artificial intelligence and control theory.
In addition to algorithm design, Professor LaValle is interested both in theoretical analysis and practical implementation issues. To stimulate the use of planning algorithms in research, education, and industry, he developed the Motion Strategy Library (MSL) together with his students.
Colleen Lewis is an Associate Professor of computer science (CS) at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Lewis was previously the McGregor-Girand Associate Professor of CS at  Harvey Mudd College. At the University of California, Berkeley, Lewis completed a PhD in science and mathematics education, an MS in computer science, and a BS in electrical engineering and computer science. Her research seeks to identify and remove barriers to CS learning and understand and optimize CS learning. Lewis curates CSTeachingTips.org, a NSF-sponsored project for disseminating effective CS teaching practices. Lewis has received the NSF CAREER Award, the NCWIT.org Undergraduate Mentoring Award and the AnitaB.org Emerging Leader Award for her efforts to broaden participation in computing. 
Yunzhu Li will join the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) as an Assistant Professor in Fall 2023. He is currently a Postdoctoral Scholar at Stanford University and recently received his Ph.D. from MIT. His work stands at the intersection of robotics, computer vision, and machine learning, with the goal of helping robots perceive and interact with the physical world as dexterously and effectively as humans do. Yunzhu received the Adobe Research Fellowship and was selected as the First Place Recipient of the Ernst A. Guillemin Master's Thesis Award in Artificial Intelligence and Decision Making at MIT. His research has been published in top journals and conferences, including Nature, NeurIPS, CVPR, and RSS, and featured by major media outlets, including CNN, BBC, The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, The Economist, and MIT Technology Review. He received a B.S. Degree from Peking University and has also spent time at the NVIDIA Robotics Research Lab.
I joyfully joined the Illinois Department of Computer Science after years of research in Biomedical informatics all in the Boston Longwood Medical area including Harvard Medical School and its affiliated hospitals.
There are two things that I feel very important in my career, one is I think learning is a life long journey, the other is there are always surprises and we must embrace changes. For example when I received my B. E. in Precision Machinery and Instrumentation from the Univ. of Science and Technology of China  I didn’t expect at all I would get my PhD from MIT in the area of computer aided design for 3-D Printing— because there was not even AutoCAD in my college years.
After my doctoral studies, I was drawn to the area of Biomedical research due to both my interest in helping cure diseases and my new found faith. In the years I spent in Boston Longwood Area, I have done research in diverse Data Science related areas such as Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, Biostatistics, and Machine learning.
Over a 4-year period of encountering/interacting with students, reviewing academic works and college teaching, I discovered I feel happiest when I work with undergraduate students and I enjoy teaching undergraduate students and training next generation of computer scientists and data-centered professionals. I am passionate about mentoring undergraduate students and helping undergraduate students do research. My research is focused on understanding the needs of students with disabilities and broadening the participation of students with disabilities. I am currently PI of two projects at the Univ. of Illinois on helping students with disabilities and PI of a project on exploring UDL in teaching STEM courses. The projects are: SIIP project "UDL based best practices including utilizing Canvas for the needs of students with disability"; GIANT project "Applying a Theoretical Understanding of Text-Based Learning Modalities To Develop New Course Modalities That Meet the Needs of Student With Disabilities".
Other interests include Biomedical applications that involve large high dimensional data analysis and machine learning and data-driven educational improvement for undergraduate students.
I like to design algorithms for solving problems in the areas of communication networks, social networks, cloud computing and machine learning, using mathematical tools from probability, optimization, control theory and game theory.
Sun's research interest is on artificial intelligence (AI) for healthcare: Deep learning for drug discovery, Clinical trial optimization, Computational phenotyping, Clinical predictive modeling, Treatment recommendation, Health monitoring.
 Sundaram received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering at Columbia University (2002) under Shih-Fu Chang's supervision. After his Ph.D., he was recruited by Arizona State University to help co-found (along with Thanassis Rikakis) the School of Arts, Media and Engineering (AME). AME is a transdisciplinary school that emphasizes scholarship and pedagogy with roots in the arts, design, and engineering. He served as Associate Director for AME (2009-12). He joined the University of Illinois in 2014 as an Associate Professor with a joint appointment between the departments of Computer Science and the Charles H. Sandage Department of Advertising. He received the Eliahu Jury award for best dissertation (2002), IBM faculty awards (2007, 2008), and several best-paper awards and best-paper runner-up honors from IEEE and ACM conferences. He was elected as ACM distinguished scientist in 2019 and IEEE senior member in 2019. 
Sundaram's research spans applied machine learning, network science, and human-computer interaction. He develops algorithms and builds systems that help individuals to understand and to act. Constraining system and algorithm design to account for human cognition limits is a central thread in his research. Among his major contributions in Multimedia Computing include a feedback-control algorithm for a ground-breaking, real-time mixed-reality system for stroke patient rehabilitation, which aimed to help stroke survivors re-learn how to reach and grasp objects. Other major contributions within Network Science include algorithms for identifying homogenous communities within large heterogeneous networks, detecting collective behavior, and efficient sampling of large graphs.
Sundaram’s current focus is motivated by the need to solve large-scale collective-action problems (e.g., public health; climate change). Collective-action problems require us to confront a fundamental tension:  How do we reconcile an individual’s desire for agency and choice in what they do with the greater common good? Computer Science can facilitate a scaling effect on theories of collective action. He develops algorithms for robust inference of behavior, including systemic bias, designs mechanisms to improve social-welfare, designs algorithms for synthesis of messages, and develops computational infrastructure to enable large-scale field experiments.
My teaching philosophy focuses on helping students construct the link between abstract concepts and practice while minimizing the cognitive load. To that end, my teaching approach builds on the idea of opening, extending, and closing circles of communication, i.e., reciprocal discussions with students. For instance, when teaching a new topic, I approach the challenge as a series of circles of communication where each circle focuses on one solution stage. In my experience, I found the reciprocal nature of this approach lends itself to incremental learning that effectively links concepts and applications. 
Luther Tychonievich began at Illinois in August 2022; prior to that he spent 9 years as teaching faculty at the University of Virginia. His primary academic activity is education: education of students, teaching assistants, faculty, and computer science educators at every level. He has taught across the CS curriculum (computer organization, data structures, discrete mathematics, graphics, programming, software development, theory of computation) as well a about equity and inclusion (active recruiting, inclusive pedagogy, stereotype threat) and education (assessment, tutoring and teaching methods).
Luther was the 2017 recipient of the Harold S. Morton Jr Award for Teaching and the 2015 and 2019 UVA ACM student chapter's Professor of the Year award winner. He currently serves on Illinois CS's Broadening Participation in Computing (BPC) committee, chairing the BPC committee's subcomittee on data, and as a Director of Academic Data Analysis. Luther is active in family history data standards where he is the chair of the board for FHISO, a managing editor of GEDCOM, and the technical lead for FHMWG; he also serves on the program committee for various conferences in CS education and as a Broadening Participation in Computing consultant for BPCnet.org, an NSF-funded service of the CRA. While at UVA he served as the chair of the Undergraduate Curriculum Committee and a member of the Diversty, Ops, Advisory, BA CS program committees, BS CS program committee, and the steering committee of the Center for Innovation in Computing Education and Outreach. He also serves on the program committee for various conferences in CS education.
Luther earned his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Virginia, M.S. and B.S. degrees in computer science from Brigham Young University, and A.A. and A.S. degrees from Lakeland Community College. As a community college alumnus, he is an advocate for community colleges generally and the community college to univeristy pipeline.
My research focuses on the science and engineering of informational systems involving humans and machines.  It is driven by a desire to improve individual and collective intelligence in modern environments.
My area of research is Wireless Communication Networks. My main research interests are in understanding fundamental limitations to reliable wireless communication and to leverage this understanding into engineering solutions for wireless networks. An important component of my research is to take a system view of wireless communication by a joint consideration of networking and medium access issues with the underlying time-varying wireless channel.
More broadly, I am interested in understanding fundamental limitations to network information transmission and representation. Some of our recent research resolves decades-long open problems in optimal network information compression.
My publications provide a finer look at the nature of my research interests and the engineering scope of contributions.
Gang Wang received his Ph.D. from UC Santa Barbara in 2016 (under the direction of Ben Y. Zhao and Heather Zheng), and a B.E. from Tsinghua University in 2010. After working as an Assistant Professor at Virginia Tech (2016 - 2019), he joined the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2019. Currently, he is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science and also has affiliate faculty appointments in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) and the Informatics Program of the School of Information Sciences at the University of Illinois. He is a recipient of the NSF CAREER Award (2018), Amazon Research Award (2021), Google Faculty Research Award (2017), and Best Paper Awards from IMWUT 2019, ACM CCS 2018, and SIGMETRICS 2013. His projects have been covered by media outlets such as MIT Technology Review, The New York Times, Boston Globe, CNN, and ACM TechNews.            
Gang Wang's research interests are Security and Privacy, Internet Measurement, and Data Mining. His work takes a data-driven approach to addressing emerging security threats in massive communication systems (social media, email services), crowdsourcing systems, mobile applications, and enterprise networks. His major contribution is a series of measurement methodologies that have revealed previously overlooked security threats, including crowdturfing activities in online social networks, security certification failures in the payment card industry, email spoofing vulnerabilities in major email providers, and the deep link usage in mobile app ecosystems. Another key contribution is his work on applying machine learning in security applications (e.g., bot detection, malware classification) to handle adversarial behaviors and concept drift. 
Gang Wang's current focus is on developing robust data-driven methods (e.g., machine learning models, graph models) to enable accurate, scalable, and user-friendly security applications for malware analysis and online abuse mitigation. The key challenge Wang is tackling is to effectively engineer human-machine collaboration pipelines to improve the efficacy and efficiency of both parties against adaptive attackers in the respective fields. Wang is currently collaborating with industry partners and researchers from related fields such as HCI and AI to address these problems.  
Professional development: Warnow received her PhD in Mathematics at UC Berkeley (1991) under the direction of Gene Lawler, and did postdoctoral training with Simon Tavare and Michael Waterman at the University of Southern California (1991-1992). After positions at Sandia National Laboratories (1992-1993), University of Pennsylvania (1993-1998), and the University of Texas (1998-2014), she joined the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign as a Founder Professor of Engineering. She is now Associate Head for Computer Science, and has affiliate faculty appointments in Bioengineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics, and several biology departments.
Awards: She received the National Science Foundation Young Investigator Award in 1994, the David and Lucile Packard Foundation Award in Science and Engineering in 1996, a Radcliffe Institute Fellowship in 2006, and a Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship for 2011. She was elected a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) in 2015 and of the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB) in 2017.
Teaching: At the undergraduate level, Warnow teaches courses in discrete mathematics and algorithm design and analysis, and use problems from computational biology to demonstrate the applications of these skills and techniques to real world problems. At the graduate level, Warnow teaches CS 581: Algorithmic Computational Genomics. The main focus of CS 581 is on phylogeny (evolutionary tree) estimation, but the course also covers the related problems of computing multiple sequence alignments, genome assembly, and analyzing microbiomes. Students will learn the mathematical and computational foundations in these areas, read the current literature, and do a team research project. The techniques involved include discrete algorithms, graph theory, simulations, and probabilistic analysis of algorithms. Course website: http://tandy.cs.illinois.edu/581-2018.html.
Leadership roles: Warnow has had several leadership roles in international consortia, including Genome 10K, the Avian Phylogenomics Project and the Thousand Plant Transcriptome Initiative. She was also the Director of the CIPRES (Cyber-Infrastructure for Phylogenetics Research) project (funded by a large ITR grant from NSF), which had more than 10 universities around the country, trained more than 50 PhD students (including many of the computer scientists now working in computational biology), and led to the establishment of the CIPRES Gateway. She also chaired the NIH study section for Biodata Management and Analysis (BDMA), and was the main program officer at NSF for the BIg Data solicitation.
Research contributions:  Warnow's main research is in algorithms for statistical estimation problems in computational biology and historical linguistics. Among her major contributions are advances in mathematical foundations in phylogenetics and methods for multiple sequence alignment, for species tree estimation from multi-gene datasets, and for metagenomic taxon identification. Warnow's collaboration with linguist Don Ringe (Univ of Pennsylvania) led to a rigorous approach to inferring evolutionary histories (both trees and networks) for natural languages, and settled several outstanding conjectures for Indo-European.
 
Tiffani L. Williams is a Teaching Professor and Director of Onramp Programs in the Department of Computer Science, and a Dean’s Fellow in Inclusion, Belonging, and Engagement in the Grainger College of Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. From 2017 to 2020, she was the Director of Computer Science Programs and Professor of the Practice at Northeastern University-Charlotte. From 2005 to 2017, she was a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Texas A&M University. 
Her awards and honors include a McKnight Doctoral Fellowship, an Alfred P. Sloan Postdoctoral Fellowship, an Edward, Frances, and Shirley Daniels Fellowship at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, a Denice Denton Emerging Leader ABIE award, and a PopTech Science Fellow award. Williams has been recognized for teaching excellence at Texas A&M with Undergraduate and Graduate Faculty Teaching Excellence awards and the Distinguished Award in Teaching by the Association of Former Students. At Illinois, she has been recognized as a Teacher Ranked as Excellent by their Students. 
Her research interests include computer science education, multiple pathway education, computational biology, and inclusive science communication.
Professor Wooldridge is looking for research assistants! For more information, go here!
Professor Wooldridge's research addresses the design of complex sociotechnical systems, primarily in healthcare settings, using mixed methods approaches to improve outcomes. In healthcare, that means patient outcomes (e.g., patient safety, quality of care) as well as clinician outcomes (e.g., workload, burnout). She has conducted research focused on primary care, care coordination of patients with chronic conditions (hospital to community care transitions) and trauma care. Her dissertation, conducted in the context of a larger project developing health information technology to support teamwork and care transitions, took a macroergonomic approach to studying care transitions of trauma patients. She then examined on the handoff communication associated with those handoffs as instances of team cognition. 
Current projects include continuing to study care transitions; she plans to conduct observation studies of inpatient care transitions between hospital units as well as return to the community care setting by studying hospital discharge care transitions. Part of this work will explore the concept of the “patient journey,” i.e., spatio-temporal distribution of patients’ interactions with multiple care settings (e.g., hospitals, clinics, home, long-term care, etc.) over time. She plans to develop interventions, such as redesigned processes, new technologies, etc., to improve care transitions; this will involve participatory design processes and usability evaluations in her lab and/or simulated settings such as JUMP Simulation. A third area of research includes developing ways to measure team cognition, particular in care transitions. Key components of her research approach include engaging frontline workers (patients and their family as well as various healthcare professionals) and utilizing mixed methods, i.e., both qualitative and quantitative, research designs.
Check out the Human Factors in Sociotechnical Systems Laboratory, directed by Dr. Wooldridge, website at https://hfss.ise.illinois.edu/contact-us/
Human factors is a diverse field, and much of the work we do requires knowledge from multiple disciplines. Therefore, Professor Wooldridge is interested in having students from various majors including industrial engineering, computer science, psychology, health sciences, community health, and related fields.
A good starting point for all interested graduate students is to send an email to Professor Wooldridge that describes:
Getting involved in research is a great way to apply knowledge learned in class and enhance your education - it is also a great way to explore the idea of graduate school. Students can get involved in projects in various stages, through a variety of ways. Interested students should email Professor Wooldridge directly.
Human factors is a diverse field, and much of the work we do requires knowledge from multiple disciplines. Therefore, Professor Wooldridge is interested in having students from various majors including industrial engineering, computer science, psychology, health sciences, community health, and related fields.
Zhang's main research interests are in Software Engineering, and its synergy with Machine Learning, Programming Languages, and Formal Methods.
Craig Zilles is an Associate Professor in the Computer Science department at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His current research focuses on applying computing and data analytics to education, including the development of the Computer-based Testing Facility (CBTF). Historically, his research has focused on the interaction between compilers and computer architecture, especially in the context of managed and dynamic languages. He received his Ph.D. in 2002 from Wisconsin-Madison for his work with Guri Sohi on Speculative Slices and Master/Slave Speculative Parallelization. Prior to his work on computer architecture and compilers, he developed the first algorithm that allowed rendering arbitrary three-dimensional polygonal shapes for haptic interfaces (force-feedback human-computer interfaces).  He has been widely recognized for excellent teaching at the undergraduate level; he has received the campus  Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching in 2018, the IEEE Education Society's 2010 Mac Van Valkenburg Early Career Teaching Award, the College of Engineering's Rose Award and Everitt Award for Teaching Excellence, and Illinois Student Senate Teaching Excellence Award.   He holds 5 patents, is a recipient of an NSF CAREER award, and his research has been recognized by best paper awards from ASPLOS in 2010 and 2013 and by selection for inclusion in the IEEE Micro Top Picks from the 2008 Computer Architecture Conferences.  
If the MRI is funded, there are three positions for people to develop the instrument, and I intend to find postdocs to fill those positions.   The intent is to use the MRI as a catalyst for interdisciplinary research efforts around computational genomics, so these postdocs will be able to help with those efforts and participate in them part time (% for some of the positions ramps down later in the project based on assumption of moving part of their time over to research efforts).
I am currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science. Prior to joining UIUC, I did postdoc at Simons Institute for Theory of Computing at UC Berkeley (Aug'15 to Dec'15), and in College of Computing at Georgia Tech (Aug'12 to July'15, advisor: Prof. Vijay V. Vazirani). I received my Ph.D. in computer science from IIT-Bombay under the supervision of Prof. Milind Sohoni and Prof. Bharat Adsul, in August 2012. My Ph.D. thesis titled "Nash Equilibrium Computation in Various Games" won the ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award, 2012.
My research is primarily in theoretical computer science. It looks at the fundamental solution concepts from economics, game theory, and social choice from the computational lens. I am also interested in understanding questions related to fairness in society, and evolution in nature.
My main research interests lie in the areas of algorithmic game theory, mathematical economics, and in design of efficient algorithms. I am interested in exploring the computability of equilibria, both market and Nash, under various settings, and also understanding the impact of strategic behavior in multi-agent situations. Currently, I am exploring problems from dynamic matching, fair division of scarce resources, and market design for cloud computing. In addition I am exploring avenues for interdisciplinary applications of these tools to genetic evolution, machine learning and dynamical systems.
The current research focus of our group is on 
1) Developing new approaches for studying problems in bioinformatics and bioengineering using coding and information theory. In particular, we investigate fundamental questions pertaining to design methodologies for DNA microarrays with error- and quality-control features and DNA microarrays that utilize compressed sensing principles.
2) Providing a bridge between the theory of compressed sensing and superimposed coding; non-linear compressive sensing with quantization and fault-tolerant sensing algorithms.
3) Using coding and information theory to study problems such as RNA folding, reverse engineering of gene-regulatory networks, and cost-constrained genome reversal distances.
4) Constructing and analyzing codes on graphs and developing new methods for studying the combinatorial properties of random ensembles of low-density parity-check codes. Our studies mainly focus on the computational complexity of problems quantifying the error-floor phenomena.
5) Analyzing the connections between network coding, matroid theory, and algebraic coding theory.
6) Analyzing the average case complexity of algorithms in coding theory and computer algebra.
Sayan is a Professor of ECE  at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign. His  book on verification of cyber-physical systems was published by MIT press in 2021. He received the National Science Foundation's CAREER Award, AFOSR Young Investigator Research Program Award, IEEE-HKN C. Holmes MacDonald Outstanding Teaching Award, a Siebel Fellowship, and several best paper awards.
We want to provide a hands-on systems-level understanding of autonomous systems for Illinois undergrads. ECE484 is a unique course designed to educate the next generation leaders about the implications of technical design choices. 
The goal our research is to develop algorithms and software tools for safe autonomous systems. We use techniques from theoretical computer science and control theory.
We are looking for graduate students with background in CS theory (formal methods, logic, automata theory, algorithms) and/or control theory. Solid programming skills & other mathematical background (e.g. stochastic processes) would be a plus. As an graduate researcher you will develop new verification and synthesis algorithms, build tools, and perform experiments in using these tools on real systems. 
We are looking for juniors/seniors with solid programming skills (E.g., C/C++, Java, Matlab) and who intend to go to grad school in one of the related research areas. Preference will be given to those who can commit to working at least 6-8 hours a week for a couple of semesters. You will work closely with one of the graduate students towards developing software tools or applying them to verify a systems. This typically leads to an undergraduate thesis or publishable work. Take a look at some of the research projects. 
Klara Nahrstedt is the Grainger Distinguished Chair of Engineering Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and is the Director of the Coordinated Science Laboratory. Her research interests are directed toward trustworthy multimedia distributed systems and networking, quality of service (QoS) and resource management in Internet and mobile systems, real-time security in wireless networks for trustworthy power grids, edge-cloud systems, cyber-physical system security for electric vehicles, health systems,  3D tele-immersive systems, and advanced edge-cloud-based cyber-infrastructures for scientific instruments. She is the recipient of the IEEE Communication Society Leonard Abraham Award for Research Achievements, the 2008 University Scholar Award, the 2009 Humboldt Research Award, the 2012 IEEE Computer Society Technical Achievement Award, and the 2014 ACM Special Interest Group on Multimedia (SIGMM) Technical Achievement Award, 2018 Robert Piloty Prize, and 2019, 2019 Tau Beta Pi Daniel C. Drucker Eminent Award in the College of Engineering, and 2020 Grainger Distinguished Chair in Engineering. She has been the editor-in-chief of the ACM/Springer Multimedia Systems journal; associate editor of the ACM Transactions on Multimedia Computing, Communications and Applications; associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Multimedia; associate editor of the IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics & Security; associate editor of IEEE Multimedia Magazine; general co-chair of ACM Multimedia 2006;  IEEE PerCom 2009,  ACM/IEEE IOTDI 2019, and IEEE Smartgridcomm 2020. She was the elected chair of the ACM SIGMM between 2007 and 2013. Nahrstedt received her Diploma in mathematics  from Humboldt University, Berlin, Germany, in 1985. In 1995, she received her Ph.D. from the Department of Computer and Information Science at the University of Pennsylvania. She is  ACM Fellow, IEEE Fellow, AAAS Fellow, member of the Leopoldina German National Academy of Sciences, and member of National Academy of Engineering. .
Ng is a media researcher with certified industrial training  (Galvanize) in data science and database tools. Her research areas  include journalism, communication technology, and social media.  Methodologically, she takes a hybrid approach that combines big data,  machine learning, as well as survey, and experimental research on media  platforms. Her current research seeks to extend the diffusion of  innovations theory by studying social media users’ post-adoption  behavior and examining the mechanisms that drive user discontinuance and  readoption.
During her doctoral study, Ng was an advanced analytics intern at Pew  Research Center’s Data Labs and a developer for the UT Computational  Media Lab. Before earning a Ph.D., Ng worked as a news artist at National Geographic Magazine and The Seattle Times and a data reporter for The Center for Public Integrity.
Prof. David M. Nicol is the Herman M. Dieckamp Endowed Chair in Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana‐Champaign, and a member of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering.  He also serves as the Director of the Information Trust Institute (iti.illinois.edu), and the Director of the Advanced Digital Sciences Center (Singapore). He is PI for two national centers for infrastructure resilience: the DHS‐funded Critical Infrastructure Resilience Institute (ciri.illinois.edu), and the DoE funded Cyber Resilient Energy Delivery Consortium (cred‐c.org); he is also PI for the Boeing Trusted Software Center, and co-PI for the NSA‐funded Science of Security lablet.
Prior to joining UIUC in 2003 he served on the faculties of the computer science departments at Dartmouth College (1996‐2003), and before that the College of William and Mary (1987‐1996). He has won recognition for excellence in teaching at all three universities. His research interests include trust analysis of networks and software, analytic modeling, and parallelized discrete‐event simulation, research which has led to the founding of startup company Network Perception, and election as Fellow of the IEEE and Fellow of the ACM. He is the inaugural recipient of the ACM SIGSIM Outstanding Contributions award, and co‐author of the widely used undergraduate textbook “Discrete‐Event Systems Simulation”.
Nicol holds a B.A. (1979) degree in mathematics from Carleton College, M.S. (1983) and Ph.D. (1985) degrees in computer science from the University of Virginia.
I aim to convey difficult material clearly, and challenge students to integrate concepts to solve new types of problems that follow immediately from the material covered.
The study of large-scale systems encounters problems in representation, scalability, and behavior.  Project MOSES investigates such issues, particularly in the context of networking security.
I have almost always had undergraduates working on my research team.  I support undergraduate summer interns.
David Padua has served as program committee member, program chair, or general chair to more than 70 conferences and workshops. He was the Editor-in-Chief of Springer‐Verlag’s Encyclopedia of Parallel Computing and is currently a member of the editorial board of the Communications of the ACM, the Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, and the International Journal of Parallel Programming. He has devoted much of his career to the study of languages, tools, and compilers for parallel computing. His PhD dissertation was one of the first studies on compiler techniques for multiprocessors. He has continued this work contributing with techniques for program analysis and program transformation as well as methodologies to evaluate the effectiveness of compilers. He pioneered the study of race detection techniques for shared-memory program. Padua has worked on autotuning, high level notations for parallel programming, compiler evaluation, and the efficient implementation of scripting languages. In the area of autotuning, he has worked on the development of compiler strategies, advanced notations, accurate performance models, and machine learning‐based search techniques. He led the development of the hierarchically tiled arrays notation whose goal is to facilitate the representation of parallelism and locality. His research group collaborated with IBM compiler writers in an influential evaluation of the effectiveness of vectorization. In the area of scripting languages, his research group developed techniques to improve the performance of MATLAB and R programs. Padua has supervised the dissertations of 30 PhD students. He has published more than 170 papers in programming languages, compilers, tools and parallel machine design. He received the 2015 IEEE Computer Society Harry H. Goode Award. In 2017, he awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Valladolid in Spain. He is a Fellow of the ACM. the IEEE and the AAAS.
Yongjoo Park is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. At UIUC, he is part of Data and Information Systems (DAIS) Research Lab. Also, Yongjoo is a co-founder and Chief Scientist of Keebo, Inc., a start-up company he co-founded based on his Ph.D. research. Yongjoo's research interest is in building intelligent data-intensive systems using statistical and Artificial Intelligence techniques. Yongjoo obtained a Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor in 2017. His dissertation received the 2018 SIGMOD Jim Gray Dissertation runner-up award.
Jian Peng has been a professor of computer science at UIUC since 2015. Before joining Illinois, Jian was a postdoc at CSAIL at MIT and a visiting scientist at the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research. He obtained his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago in 2013. His research interests include bioinformatics, cheminformatics, and machine learning. Algorithms developed by Jian and his co-workers were successful in several scientific challenges, including the Critical Assessment of Protein Structure Prediction (CASP) competitions and a few DREAM challenges on translational medicine and pharmacogenomics. Recently, Jian has received the Overton Prize, an NSF CAREER Award, a PhRMA Foundation Award, and an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship.
1. Computational Molecular and Systems Biology
Protein structure, interaction, and function are by nature intertwined, with structure, or structural properties, playing a large role in defining the function and understanding human diseases. As such, determining protein structure has been one of the most important challenges in biology. In parallel, given the many obstacles to experimental structure determination, computational prediction of protein structure remains one of the longest-standing challenges in computational biology. My group has developed a number of machine learning algorithms to tackle this problem. In particular, DeepContact, an approach that employs deep learning for protein contact prediction, has achieved substantial improvement over previous approaches, highlighted by its performance (as a co-winner) in the most recent Critical Assessment of protein Structure Prediction (CASP12) in 2016. In another recent work, we developed DeepSignal, a recurrent neural network model to study protein function, such as phosphorylation and motif binding. Applied to the cellular signaling system, DeepSignal not only improves the prediction but also enable mutational analysis for studying the functional variants in human diseases, such as cancer. We have then extended the model for other types of protein-substrate interactions, including protein-RNA binding and protein-peptide binding. Most recently, we developed a deep-learning model to integrate evolutionary representations for efficient protein design and engineering.
Moving from individual molecules, a systematic understanding of their interactions and functions, from heterogeneous datasets, is critical for both biological and translational medicine research. I have been developing efficient machine learning algorithms, especially integrative manifold learning algorithms, to extract information from various interactomic datasets. My algorithm, Mashup, takes full advantage of network-specific topology by learning a canonical representation that best integrates the topological patterns across multiple biological networks. Its substantial improvements over the state-of-the-art methods in distinct functional inference tasks demonstrate its applicability to effectively deciphering functional properties of genes from interactomes. Based on Mashup, my group has developed generalized versions to incorporate other data types, including text, homology, and structures
2. Pharmacogenomics and Human Disease Genomics
Computational prediction of drug–target interactions (DTIs) has become an important step in the drug discovery or repositioning process, aiming to identify putative new drugs or novel targets for existing drugs to accelerate drug discovery. Collaborating with biologists, my group has developed DTINet based on Mashup that integrates diverse drug information for DTI prediction. Validated on benchmarks and by experiments, DTINet offers a practical and accurate tool to predict unknown DTIs, which may provide new insights into drug discovery or repositioning. Furthermore, I have been working with doctors and medical researchers, applying my algorithms to studying human diseases. In a recent Cell Systems article, we systematically mapped molecular pathways underlying the toxicity of alpha-synuclein, a protein central to Parkinson’s disease. To translate findings from yeast screens, we developed a computational method to integrates a Steiner prize-collecting approach with homology assignment through Mashup integration with sequence, structure, and interaction topology. This work has been featured as the cover article in the issue and received multiple highlights in media and a Bishop Dr. Karl Golser Paper Award. Based on the network, we have performed a high-depth exome-capture of these genes in 500 patients with synucleinopathy and identified novel rare variants that are enriched in carriers of mutations in LRRK2 and GBA.  Collaborating with researchers from UCSD School of Medicine, we have identified a novel way to stratify cancer patients by their tumor mutations using networks.
3. Data Analytics and Machine Learning 
In addition to bioinformatics problems, we have been working on developing new machine learning algorithms for data analysis and deep reinforcement learning algorithms for process optimization of scientific experiments. Collaborating with chemists, we have been developing a fully automated molecular synthesis system powered by deep learning and reinforcement learning algorithms. 
Maxim Raginsky received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in 2000 and the Ph.D. degree in 2002 from Northwestern University, all in Electrical Engineering. He has held research positions with Northwestern, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (where he was a Beckman Foundation Fellow from 2004 to 2007), and Duke University. In 2012, he has returned to the UIUC, where he is currently a Professor with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Coordinated Science Laboratory. He also holds a courtesy appointment with the Department of Computer Science.
Prof. Raginsky's interests cover probability and stochastic processes, deterministic and stochastic control, machine learning, optimization, and information theory. Much of his recent research is motivated by fundamental questions in modeling, learning, and simulation of nonlinear dynamical systems, with applications to advanced electronics, autonomy, and artificial intelligence.
Dr. Reid is a Research Professor in Computer Science and Ag & Bio Engineering, and he is an affiliate in the Center for Digital Agriculture. Reid has more than 35 years of highly accomplished technology leadership experience in industry and academia. From 1986-2000, he served on the faculty at the University of Illinois where his research focused on sensing, automation, and control of food and agricultural systems. He then spent 19 years with Deere and Company where initiated the development of enterprise field robotics capabilities. He has experience in innovation management having served as Director, Enterprise Product Innovation and Technology for 14 years. In 2017 he was recognized as John Deere Technical Fellow for his contributions in Technology Innovation. From 2020-2022, he was Vice President of Enterprise Technologies for Brunswick Corporation.
Reid received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Agricultural Engineering from Virginia Tech.  Reid received his PhD in Agricultural Engineering from Texas A&M University where his dissertation topic was automatic tractor guidance via computer vision. His research interests have broadly focused advancing agricultural and biological systems through advance sensing, automation, and control. He and his collaborators have produced more than 30 patents in these research areas.
Dr. Reid’s external leadership includes Chairmanship of the Innovation Research Interchange from 2018-2019, serving on Board of Directors of Fraunhofer USA from 2013-2022, and Dr. Reid is a full member of the Club of Bologna, a global taskforce for the development of strategies for agricultural mechanization. Awards include University of Illinois University Scholar (1995), ASABE Fellow (2004), and John Deere Fellow (2017) and Virginia Tech Academy of Engineering Excellence (2020).   Dr. Reid was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 2019 for contributions to automation in agriculture.
How can we build a world in which programmers of all skill levels across all domains can prove the absence of costly or dangerous bugs in software systems---that is, formally verify them? I am an Assistant Professor with the PL/FM/SE group at Illinois, and I like to build proof engineering technologies to make that world a reality. In so doing, I love to use the whole toolbox---everything from dependent type theory to program transformations to neural proof synthesis---all in service of real humans.
Prior to Illinois, I earned my PhD in 2021 from the University of Washington, working with the wonderful PLSE group. Prior to graduate school, I earned my BS in Computer Science and Mathematics from the University of Maryland, then worked as a software engineer at Amazon for three years.
I am extremely passionate about building a welcoming environment for students. I am founder and chair of the SIGPLAN long-term mentoring committee (called SIGPLAN-M), an international long-term cross-institutional mentoring program for aspiring and current programming languages researchers spanning dozens of countries and reaching hundreds of mentees around the world. I am also the founder and president of the Computing Connections Fellowship, a fellowship that provides institution-independent transitional funding for computer science Ph.D. students who need help escaping unhealthy environments.
I am openly bisexual and prefer they/them pronouns; I am always happy to talk to LGBTQ students. I am also very open about my experiences with mental illness, and very happy to talk to anyone who needs an ear (though students should keep in mind that I am a mandatory reporter through Title IX).
Grigore Rosu does research in design, semantics and implementation of programming and specification languages, automated software engineering and formal methods, especially push-button techniques for certification, monitoring, synthesis and modularization, and in automated reasoning about computer systems, applications of logics, theorem proving, algorithms, (co)algebra, and category theory.  He teaches classes on software engineering, programming languages, formal methods, and runtime verification.  Before joining UIUC in 2002, he was a research scientist at NASA Ames.  He obtained his Ph.D. at the University of California at San Diego in 2000 and his M.S. at the University of Bucharest, Romania, in 1996.   Grigore was offered the CAREER award by the NSF in 2005, the outstanding junior award by the CS Department at UIUC in 2005, and the Dean's award for excellence in research by the College of Engineering at UIUC in 2014.  He won the ASE IEEE/ACM most influential paper award in 2016 and the RV test of time award for papers published in 2001 that shaped the runtime verification field, and distinguished/best paper awards at ASE 2008, ASE 2016, OOPSLA 2016, ETAPS 2002.  He was ranked a UIUC excellent teacher in Spring 2013, Fall 2012, Spring 2008 and Fall 2004.
Rosu is known for work in runtime verification, the K framework, matching logic, and automated coinduction.
Runtime verification was coined by Havelund and Rosu as the name of a workshop they started in 2001, aimed at addressing problems at the boundary between formal verification and testing.  Since 2001,   runtime verification  (RV) has grown into an active and diverse community, with its own international conference.  The underlying idea of RV is to verify a system while it executes, where the system is either instrumented or simulated in an environment in which efficient monitors are generated from specifications and checked against the running system.  Combined with recovery when properties are violated, RV can be used as a scalable alternative to formal verification, yielding the same correctness guarantees but at a cost fraction.  Runtime verification has got significant traction in the formal verification and software engineering communities, where major conferences include special tracks named Runtime Verification.  Within the RV field, Rosu and his collaborators introduced several notions, seminal algorithms and techniques for parametric property monitoring, efficient monitor synthesis, runtime predictive analysis, as well as monitoring-oriented programming as a programming paradigm where a formal specification and an implementation form together a (runtime verified) system.  In 2010, Rosu founded the company Runtime Verification, Inc. , as a vehicle to productize and commercialize RV technology to customers such as NASA, Boeing, Toyota, Denso, as well as emerging companies in the blockchain space such as Ethereum Foundation, IOHK, Tezos, Algorand, Maker, Gnosis, etc.
The  K framework  was proposed by Rosu together with his FSL lab in 2003, as an executable semantic framework.  Programming languages, type systems and formal analysis tools can be defined uniformly in the K framework, using configurations, computations and rewrite rules.  The distinctive feature of K is that once a system is formalized as a K definition, all the tools needed for that system, from concrete execution engines (interpreters, virtual machines (VMs), compilers) to symbolic execution and formal verification tools, can and should be derived automatically or semi-automatically, correct-by-construction.  The goal of K is to put an end to the adhoc language tool development.  Several complete semantics of real-life programming languages, such as C, Java, JavaScript, Python, and the Ethereum Virtual Machine, have been formally defined in K.
Matching logic is a unifying logic for programming languages, specification, and verification.   Matching logic is as expressive as first-order logic (FOL) plus induction, but it provides a compact notation that captures, as syntactic sugar, several logics and formalisms of critical importance such as: algebraic specification and initial algebra semantics, FOL with least fixed points , typed or untyped lambda-calculi, dependent type systems, separation logic with recursive predicates, rewriting logic, Hoare logic, temporal logics, dynamic logic, modal μ-calculus, and so on.
Rosu proposed circular coinduction in his PhD thesis, as an automation of coinduction in the context of hidden logic.  This was further generalized into a principle that unifies and automates proofs by both induction and coinduction, and has been implemented or incorporated in provers such as Coq, Isabelle/HOL, and CIRC.
Romit Roy Choudhury is a Jerry Sanders III AMD Scholar and Professor of ECE and CS at the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign (UIUC). He joined UIUC from Fall 2013, prior to which he was an Associate Professor at Duke University. Romit received his PhD in the CS department of UIUC in Fall 2006. His research interests are in sensing and signal processing with applications in mobile  and wearable computing. Along with his students, he received a few research awards, including the 2017 ACM MobiSys Best Paper Award, the 2016 CS@UIUC Distinguished Alumni Award, the 2015 ACM Sigmobile Rockstar Award, the 2009 Hoffmann Krippner Award for Engineering Innovations, 2007 NSF CAREER Award, etc. Romit was elected as an IEEE Fellow in 2019. Visit Romit's Systems Networking Research Group (SyNRG) at http://synrg.csl.illinois.edu
Romit's research interests are at the intersection of wireless networking and applied signal processing with applications to mobile sensing, IoT, and data-driven inference. 
Koustuv Saha started as an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in Fall 2023. He completed his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Georgia Tech in 2021. His research interest is in social computing, computational social science, human-centered machine learning, and FATE. He adopts machine learning, natural language, and causal inference analysis to examine human behavior and wellbeing using different forms of digital data, including social media and multimodal sensing data. His work questions the underlying assumptions of data-driven inferences and the possible harms such inferences might lead to. His research is situated in an interdisciplinary and human-centered context and bears implications for various stakeholders. His work has been published at various venues, including CHI, CSCW, ICWSM, IMWUT (UbiComp), Scientific Reports, JMIR, FAccT, among others. He is a recipient of the 2021 Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award from the College of Computing at Georgia Tech, Foley Scholarship Award from the GVU Center, Snap Research Fellowship, and a finalist of the Symantec Graduate Fellowship. His research has won the Outstanding Study Design Award at ICWSM, and has been covered by several media outlets, including the New York Times, Vox, CBC Radio, NBC, 11Alive, the Hill, and the Commonwealth Times. 
He was previously a Senior Researcher at Microsoft Research, Montreal, in the Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics in AI (FATE) group. During his Ph.D., he did research internships at Snap Research, Microsoft Research, Max Planck Institute, and Fred Hutch Cancer Research. Earlier, he completed his B.Tech (Hons.) in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur. He was awarded the NTSE Scholarship by the Govt. of India, and he has six years of overall industry research experience. 
Lui Sha graduated with Ph.D. from CMU in 1985. He worked at the Software Engineering Institute from 1986 to1998. He joined UIUC in 1998 as a full professor. Currently, he is Donald B. Gillies Chair Professor of Computer Science Department and Daniel C. Drucker Eminent Faculty at UIUC's College of Engineering.  He is a fellow of IEEE and ACM, and a recipient of the IEEE Simon Ramo Medal for exceptional achievement in systems engineering and systems science. He was a member of National Academic of Science's Committee on Certifiably Dependable Software Systems and a member of NASA Advisory Council. 
He led the research, development, and the transition to practice on real-time and embedded computing technologies, which were cited as a major accomplishment in the selected accomplishment section of the 1992 National Academy of Science's report, "A Broader Agenda for Computer Science and Engineering" (P.193). He led a comprehensive revision of IEEE standards on real-time computing, which have since become the best practice in real-time computing systems. Now it has been widely used in real-time systems such as airplanes, robots, cars, ships, trains, medical devices. His work on real-time and safety-critical system integration has impacted many high technology programs, including GPS, Space Station, and Mars Pathfinder. In recent years, his team has been working on autonomous vehicles.
His recent research includes: 1) Physics Model Edited DNN.  A physics model is a validated low-dimensional model of causality with critical properties such as provable stability. DNN is a high-dimensional model of correlations that may capture not only unmodeled dynamics in physics model but also  spurious corrections in the training samples (overfitting) that leads to outputs inconsistent with physical laws.  Physics Edited DNN combines the best of the physical model and DNN model; 2) Medical GPS systems to dramatically reduce preventable medical errors, which are the misapplication of complex modern medical knowledge. Preventable medical errors claim 250,000 lives per year and are the third leading cause of deaths in the USA alone.

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		Research Interests
Cyber-Physical Systems, Safe Autonomy, Medical Guidance Systems




Research Areas
Systems and Networking



Recent Courses TaughtCS 424 - Real-Time Systems
CS 431 - Embedded Systems
CS 591 LRS - Improving your Research Skills
CS 598 LRS (CS 598 RTS) - Real Time Systems



Paris Smaragdis completed his masters (1997), Ph.D. (2001), and postdoctoral studies (2002) at MIT, performing research on computational audition. Prior to the University of Illinois he was a research scientist at MERL, and Adobe Research. His research is focused on machine learning approaches to solving various audio signal processing problems. In 2006 he was selected by MIT’s Technology Review as one of the year’s top young technology innovators (TR35) for his work on machine listening, he has won the IEEE Signal Processing Society Best Paper Award twice (2017 and 2020), he was elected an IEEE Fellow (class of 2015), and selected as an IEEE Signal Processing Society Distinguished Lecturer (2016-2017). 
He has served in the IEEE Signal Processing Society Board of Governors (2017-2020), as chair of the Machine Learning for Signal Processing Technical Committee of the IEEE (2012-2014), as chair of the Audio and Acoustics Signal Processing Technical Committee of the IEEE (2018-2020), as chair of the IEEE SPS Data Science Initiative (2019-2020), and as chair of the Audio and Acoustics Signal Processing Technical Committee of the IEEE, and from 2012 to 2015 he chaired the steering committee of the international community on Latent Variable Analysis and Source Separation (2012-2015). 
He is currently the Editor in Chief for the ACM/IEEE Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing.  He has been a Senior Area Editor for IEEE’s Signal Processing Transactions and IEEE’s Open Journal of Signal Processing. His research has been productized multiple times in commercial software that is in use by millions of users worldwide, and he holds more than 40 US patents, as well as patents in Japan and Europe. He has been an active consultant on audio technologies with multiple Fortune 500 companies.
Paris Smaragdis is best known for contributions in the field of audio processing, more specifically on the problem of source separation (the process of extracting an isolated signal from a mixture). His work on Frequency Domain Independent Component Analysis resulted in the first practical real-time implementations of such systems in the 90s. His later work on Non-Negative Spectral Factorizations was widely adopted for many audio applications, and more recently his introduction of end-to-end deep learning methods for source separation and denoising has resulted in wide adoption.
Smaragdis’ current research focus is on very efficient on-device processing of audio using deep learning, as well as methods for distributed learning over thousands of sensors. He is currently investigating the use of graph models for parameter-free representations of time sequences, binary network signal processing systems, online on-device learning, and is also interested in fully-differentiable digital signal processing systems.
